High.
So in this video I want to talk very quickly about reloading modules and we can certainly do that.
That's actually built into the python standard library but there are some dangers with that.
So let me go ahead and show you now what I'm going to do here is I'm going to create my modules using
that same trick.
I'm going to write out a module file from inside the Jupiter notebook so I keep things self-contained
I don't have to switch back and forth between you know editors and the Python notebook and so on.
But you can go ahead and just create those files by hand.
I'm just going to do it the hard way.
So I'm going to import os and I'm going to create a function that's going to generate a module file
and the module file is going to have a name and then I'm also going to pass an arbitrary number of keyword
only arguments.
I don't know the meaning so I'm just using the generic KW Arne's and what this is going to do.
It's going to create a module file that's going to be named module name.
Y.
Right with the module name is what gets passed in it's that variable that was passing in that argument.
And then the module is going to have a single function.
And we're going to call it let's say print values and that will print out the supply of the string of
file.
Basically string if fired on.
KW ounce OK.
So that's what we're going to do with something very simple.
So let's go ahead and build out the path where I want to save this I'm going to save the same directory
as the Jupiter and Northpark.
So this is just going to be the module name.
That's why I'm using strings here.
I could have done module name.
I know I could have done it this way if you're not familiar with the string notation.
You can do this as well this way.
OK.
Like that dobbed format.
And then the module name that's the same thing.
Felt right.
It's the same thing anyways.
Ok so we can do it either way.
And there are two equivalent statements also need to know the relative file path where I need to set
I should say the relative file path and so there is going to be the module file name.
So I'm just going to take the not strings.
I'm just going to take a module file name as the full or relative file path.
So it's good to be in my current directory wherever the current Jupiter notebook is running.
And then I'm going to make an absolute file path out of that and I'm going to use the OS dot path dot
absolute path on the module relative arm module and just use a completion profile path.
If you're in a notebook it can trigger auto completion by hitting the tab key.
OK.
So now we're finally to open the file so module module.
Absolute power.
Just use the absolute file path.
We're going to write to those and we'll replace the file if it's there already.
I would normally use something a little bit better than Earth but I'm going to run out of horizontal
space so I'm going to do it this way now.
F and F have nothing to do with each other.
And so I'm going to put a comment at the top of the file that's going to be the module name dot P Y
and I'll put to the old line feeds.
Then I'll write out the first thing that we want when we're going to save print running the module file
name.
OK.
So we'll just say hey we're running this.
And so we need to close off the single code for the print statement that finishes off the print statement
and I'll put two new lines then we'll write a function so we'll again use an F string.
So we're going to def print values.
Now the way I'm going to do.
I'm not going to pass the KW args to print values.
I'm essentially going to create a print value function that has a print statement for each keyword argument
that gets passed into KW.
So let's go ahead and do that.
I'm going to put a new line there and then for the column of value in KW And the items then I pick out
each one of those.
We're going to write out a print statement that's going to print that key and the value.
So I need to put a tab to the proper indentation in my code file.
And what do we want to print out.
Well we want to print out the string version of the key right.
So it's going to print that out.
That's going to be that and we'll do that.
So that will be the first argument to print and then the second argument to print is going to be the
again the string version.
But of value this time.
OK.
And that ends off the print statement and I'll put a new line.
So we have a new line every time.
OK so that's that should do it.
So now we should have a module that gets created when we call it.
So let's try it let's create module file let's call it test.
So we should get a test of p y file and we'll pass in K one equals 10 and then k 2 equal to Python K
and go to type it right.
So there we go so we should have a file created.
Let's actually check.
So I mean here and I just created this test.
Doppie y as you can see print running test the P Y and then print values K 110 K to Python with the
comment of the top test of p y.
So it did exactly what we were hoping to do.
OK so back to here.
So now what I'm going to do is I have this module I can import it right.
And there we go.
It said running test.
And if I look at the test itself we can see that it came from that same directory that I showed you
from that file that was in that directory.
And we can call test doffed print value for values.
Sorry.
That's right.
OK.
So there we go k 110 K to Python.
Now let me go ahead and change this module.
Let me just go ahead and say create module file and we're going to keep the same name.
So now we're going to overwrite the module.
Now my current module that I'm in the notebook is still running but I'm going to as I'm still running
my code here modify the code in the test module.
So it's going to be the same name but I'm going to pass on now the same arguments I had before.
And a third one let's say she's as the third one.
OK.
And I need to put in an underscore.
There we go.
So now we have a new module.
Let's take a look at it.
And as you can see we now have three values being printed out from that print values function.
So that's what the new version of the module looks like.
So going back to the notebook.
Let's go ahead and let's re-import it let's say import test.
Now you'll notice nothing happened.
We didn't get the running test of P Y that we've been used to and that's because well test was actually
loaded.
It was in the CIS modules dictionary.
Python said well I don't need to reload it.
I've already loaded.
And in fact if we called past goft print values
we'll see that we still only get the original two.
And let's take a look at the memory address of test.
That's what it is.
OK and we'll need that to go back to it in a second.
So let's take a look at what's in the CIS module and we know that test is in system modules.
OK.
Because we imported it.
So here's one way that we can force Python to re-import the module.
We can basically delete test from CIS modules.
Now that object exists in memory.
All we're doing here is removing the reference that insists module to that object in memory.
I don't know if anything else is holding a reference to it.
If nothing else is holding a reference to that object it will get cleaned up from memory counting through
reference counting.
So here were all I'm going to do is I'm going to delete it from sists modules.
I'm going to delete the test.
OK.
So now look at the test in six modules that's gone.
That's no longer there.
Now let's say simple test and it says running test so it imported it.
OK let's take a look at the ID of sists modules
test.
So this is a new object.
You can see that the memory address is not the same.
3 5 2 8 3 1 2 8.
It recreated the object reloaded it put into a module object and then assigned it to the test key in
the modules dictionary.
But what about the test that's in our global namespace because we still have test in our global namespace
right.
Test is in
Global's contract.
OK.
And that's true.
What's the idea of test here.
It's 3 3 1 2 8 which we expect because we just ran the import.
OK so now if I say test dobbed print values that's great.
We get what we expected but there's a problem.
What happens if there's some other module in our code somewhere that did that import.
Initially it still has a reference to the old memory address to the old object.
The only reason we have a reference to the new object is because we ran import tests here so we reloaded
in a way test.
We forced that by removing it from CIS modules and then we reloaded it into our global namespace here.
But if there was another module that was running somewhere that had already done the import of test
it would still be running the old value the old version of test any module that from this point on import
test.
They'll get a new version of test.
Anything that was already in place before.
They haven't been updated.
So that's the downside.
And the reason why that's happening is because the memory address that's being referenced by test in
the CIS modules changed.
But once remember it gets copied to the global namespace.
At that point things can be very different.
So this is why you can certainly do it this way but that's not the good approach.
Instead there's a much better approach so we can do using import lib So again let me just show you what
import test is OK.
This is the memory address for the imported test.
And just to make absolutely sure.
Well this is the one that we have in our local and this is the one that's in the CIS modules dictionary.
OK.
They both the same object both the same ID.
Now let me create this module again.
So I'm going to make one more change to x.
So we'll call it test again.
So we're going to override it and we'll pass K-1 equals 10 k to equals Python and then we'll have K3
equals cheese.
And then K4 equals Peritz.
OK so now we've added a full value and K one equals 10.
OK so now we've changed that module.
Again let me just show you.
This is the test p y.
And this is what's in the module.
Now as you can see we have that Prince K for parrots as well in addition.
Now I'm going to say import import lib and then I'm going to use the import Loeb's to reload what reload
does is it's going to keep the same memory address for the test module that's in the CIS modules file.
It's not going to change the memory address so it's not like we're removing the object from that dictionary
creating a new object and making a new reference to it where actually we are python here is actually
going to reload that object.
It's going to mutate the object but the memory address is not going to change.
So let me show you.
OK.
We see running test of p why it ran OK.
And it brought back basically had returned what the module was.
So now if I look at the idea of test in my global namespace it's still the old one because I haven't
changed the reference.
Right I've just up you know I've changed the contents of the memory of that module and that memory address.
But in fact the memory address of the module in the CIS modules is the same as well.
It's it hasn't changed either.
So now you can see I don't have to worry about my global namespace pointing to an old version or somebody
else that may have imported test and then pointing to an old version of test because the memory address
stayed the same.
So whoever had a reference to test already still has the reference to test.
The only thing is that the content of the test module has changed.
It's been mutated in memory.
So now if I call test that print values you'll see it's four words.
And I get the new value as well.
So this is the safer approach of reloading a module.
But still this is not something you should do manually and or at least you shouldn't do in production.
This is something that can be done when your me all manually working with stuff interactively and you
don't want to necessarily restart your program and so on.
So why am I saying that.
Let's say that I do the following.
Let's say that I'm going to say from test import actually let's let's do a new module.
So let's go ahead and say create module file.
Let's call it test to and in here I'm going to put K-1 equals Python.
OK so I've created this module that now exists.
That's just a file.
And now I can import it.
But what I'm going to do is I'm going to say from first to import print values I'm going to use this
from version of the input.
OK so now I don't have to test to write in my global namespace
but test to is then is in the cist modules namespace in modules.
Dictionaries are actually that.
OK so test is in the system modules dictionary.
But I do have a reference though to print Vern's print values is the function print values and test
2.
So I can call print values.
OK.
Now I'm going to make a change to the module file.
I'm going to add a K-2 equals cheese.
Let's see.
OK so now I've modified the file on disk.
Now I need to reload it now I can't do this.
I can't say our import lib don't reload test 2.
I need to pass that a module for reload an object a module object while I test to is not in my Global's
because I never imported it I only imported print values from Test 2 so I can't use test 2 directly
but that's easy enough to get a hold of.
I can just grab it out of the source modules.
So now I'm going to reload that module.
Test.
So as you see it ran running tests it executed the model.
And what we got was you know from this was returned the test module it came from that file that we modified
but what's print values it's still printing the old version.
Why.
Because we had a reference to print values from the original test to import here we reloaded important
test.
The new test 2 is a new object but the print values that we have in our global namespace still refers
to the old one.
To really get the new one I would have to say something like maybe you know from test to import arm
print values.
OK that's one way of doing it or I would have to go and say well you know print values is equal to 6
dart modules
to test to Dark's print values right.
I could do it this way as well says d'arte modules.
OK.
So now I would have the new print values as you can see I have two entries.
So again we run into the same problem after we've done the reload.
Anybody else that had done something like this is going to be pointing to the old value of print values
not the new one.
Hence why you can reload.
But it's not safe.
The odds are that you're going to break something in code somewhere or if somebody is using your library
and you do that you know somewhere you're going to break their code.
If they do this kind of impled it will work as long as they do import tests too.
Then every time they do Testudo print values it will reference the new version of the code because it's
the same memory address of the module but the symbol that was exported print values here.
If I do it this way it would still be the old one.
All right.
So reload can be done.
Not safe.
Don't do it.
Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video.